---
layout: post
title: Some thoughts on Tweeting
author: jagan
tags: [Twitter, Tweeting, Natural Language Processing]
comments: true
---
I am not a twitter user :-) :-( . But I found that twitter has an importent role in my professional area (Natural Language Processing). Lots of R&D activities are happening related to blogging and microbloging, like 'sentiment analysis' etc.. I think it is going to be the next generation marketing  platform.

 Today I was searching on IEEE Xplore for academic papers related to twitter. The keyword 'Twitter' returned 23 results in IEEE Xplore. I found an one page writeup on tweeting by 'Robobert W. Lucky' titled "To Twitter Or Not to Twitter?".It appeared in the 'Reflection coloum of IEEE Spectrum. He shares his thoughts on tweeting and people who used to tweet in this article. He concludes the article so:
"So is the networking phenomenon a great revolution in social consciousness, or is this just a lot of pointless, incessant barking? If you get a message that I’ve just awakened, you’ll know what I’ve decided." 

The full version of the article can be accessed from this link http://www.boblucky.com/reflect/jan09.html

The second article I found was "Yes, we can Twitter" by 'Sangani, K'. It gives a short history of twitter, popular users on twitter, trends in twitter and about virus and spoofing attack . The author quotes reports from "Sophos" an anti-virus company. The article appeared in 'Engineering and Technology' Volume 4,  Issue 6,  11-24 April 11 2009 Page(s):34 - 35 . 

Another write-up I came came across is by 'Fred Douglis' entitled 'Information Overload,140 Characters at a Time'. He also shares his personal thoughts on tweets with some user experience. He concludes his writing :
        "My own prediction is that Twitter
        will continue to be successful
        for a while, but if it doesn’t improve
        its communication model, it will be
        overtaken by a competing service
        that will have a better handle on
        controlling information and permitting
        people to get high-value content
        while avoiding the dreck. Time
        will tell." 
The article appeared in Internet Computing, IEEE,Volume 13,  Issue 4,  July-Aug. 2009 Page(s):4 - 5.

There are other articles too. I am reading those articles. I am more interested in "NLP with Twitter content".


Migrated from my [old blog jaganadhg.freeflux.net](https://web.archive.org/web/20160323193721/http://jaganadhg.freeflux.net/blog)
